A very rough agenda. Darrel, MNot, and I will all be onsite.

The preliminary agenda has us meeting on Wednesday, 13:00-14:30.  I am tempted to tell them we can move down to 60 minutes, any reaction?  Also, if you have new work you want to talk about, feel free to let us know and we can put it in the AOB section.

Chair
	Note well reminder
	Document update

Documents
	Patch-byterange
	Idempotency-key-header
	Privacy

Expired documents
If nothing else, we will be looking for volunteers to help move these forward.
	Authentication-link
	Link-hint
	Rest-api-mediatypes
	Ratelimit-headers

Any other business


